[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> One of my most favorite ways
to actually use tapping these
days in my life--
and it's still a way
of uncovering whatever
I need to do my tapping on--
is to actually use
it to set goals.
So lots of the
time, particularly
at the start of a
new year, people
will often have an intention
for the year or a goal
that they would
like to come true.
Sometimes we call
them resolutions.
Often, we know we
will sabotage those.
Again, it can be unconsciously.
But somewhere, within enough
time, maybe a month or two down
the track, we'd slip back
to our old way of being,
because that is
what's normal for us.
That's our habitual
way of being.
So often, we might find a
perfectly legitimate excuse
for why the goal
didn't come true.
And more often than not,
that's to reassure ourselves
that we're not a failure,
that type of thing.
Or we don't tell
anybody about a goal,
perhaps, that we set,
because it didn't come true.
So tapping is a
really lovely way
to find out what is getting
in the road here of a goal,
can I clear that with tapping--
and we'll talk
about that today--
and then, of course, give
myself the best possible chance
in my life for that to actually
come to fruition or eventuate.
So it's a really lovely way to
introduce tapping to teenagers
that perhaps think you're a
little bit strange, wanting
them to tap on pressure
points on their face,
because lots of teens will often
have something that they wish
would come true.
So it could be a wish,
a goal, an intention,
whatever it might be.
What it does in this
process, though,
is it reveals to us
any limiting beliefs
that we may have left
over or that we're still
storing from our childhood.
So when we're in that first
10 to 12 years of our life,
we're in quite a
hypnotic brainwave state.
We are very open
to all the messages
that we are hearing
around us that
might come from our primary
caregivers, our educators,
anyone that's influential
in those first dozen years.
That is purely physiological.
So whatever messages we hear--
and often, they're
not on purpose--
but the negative ones that
might get installed or implanted
have just come from what
our parents or our teachers
have learned themselves.
So they pass on
exactly the same thing.
What it is, though,
is an opportunity
to become aware of what they are
and, in our own goal-setting,
use tapping to clear those.
So if I asked you right now just
to have a think about something
that you would
like to come true,
just to actually
have a think about.
And often a way that you
could write it down--
writing goals down has been
shown to actually make them
more concrete and make them
more specific for you--
is to often write
them in present tense.
So if you were to think
about it like this--
you were to write your
goal like, it is now--
and pick a date.
You can guess a
date, pick a date.
And then the end of the
goal is what happened--
"And I," and then
whatever it is.
So you're writing it as though
it already has come true.
Now, you can make yourself
uncomfortable here
by writing a goal that
you absolutely think
is not going to come true.
That's OK.
It's all right to write one
that stretches you a little bit.
And it does work
better with tapping
if you pick one of those goals.
There's two things
we can do here
for tapping with
goals, is one, we
can tap on our level of doubt.
So often, if we have a
goal, we've written it down,
and we say it out
loud to ourselves.
It is now the 30th
of November, 2021,
and I'm walking along
the beach in Hawaii,
and I'm staying at
a six-star hotel.
Do I have any doubt
that might come true?
And again, I give it
a number out of 10.
So 0 is no doubt, and
10 is the most doubt.
If I sort of have a
doubt level of about 7,
I can purely tap on doubt.
So I can just tap
on, even though I
have this doubt about that
goal with Hawaii coming true,
there's no way I'm going to
stay in a five-star hotel.
And I can tap on
my doubt, my doubt.
And the doubt will
start to decrease,
because when doubt becomes
really low, and, for you,
it feels like no, I
don't have any doubt,
I can't think of any reasons
that can't come true,
then you know that you're much
more aligned with that goal,
and you're removing
any obstacles.
So we call them roadblocks.
What are your roadblocks?
So doubt is a roadblock.
So doubt is one
that we can tap on.
The second one that we can do
is read the goal out loud again,
read it out loud, but then
just go quiet for a moment
and listen to the internal
voices in your head.
Now, often, we have this little
committee of voices in our head
that we've gathered
over the years.
And the committee could
be family members.
It could be friends
that are well-meaning.
It could be people
from the past.
It could be current people.
And they're the people
that are well-meaning,
but they're the
voices in our head
that tell us something
can't come true.
And normally, that's
to try and protect us,
because it's something different
and outside our comfort zone.
So if I go back
to my Hawaii goal,
it is now the 30th
of November, 2021,
and I'm walking along
the beach in Hawaii,
and I'm staying in a
beautiful six-star hotel.
And now, if I go
quiet, and I listen,
what thoughts might come
to mind that tell me
it can't come true?
And I need a piece of
paper at this point,
because I might have a few.
If there was anything like,
how are you possibly going
to afford that, I would write
that down on my piece of paper.
I might have another little
voice inside me that says,
no one in the family has
ever traveled overseas.
You don't even have a passport.
These are all my
roadblocks that are
my little voices inside my head
that these are the things that
actually act as the sabotage
that we try to consciously use
willpower to move beyond
them, but within time,
your activating system
there in the brain
will just bring you back.
It'll wait patiently until you
kind of run out of willpower.
And it'll bring you back
to the way things are,
which is that goal
doesn't come true for you.
So however many-- and
there might be only three.
There might be half a dozen.
There could be 25
different-- and they're often
little one-liners.
How are you going
to afford that?
No one in the family's
ever traveled?
Who do you think you are?
We write them all down.
And what we do is, we
actually tap on each of those
separately.
So we come back to
our set-up statement,
and we say the sentence
of what we wrote down
in the set-up statement.
So it might be, even though
I don't think this goal
will come true because
no one in my family
has ever traveled overseas,
who do I think I am?
And so what we would
tap on is any feeling
associated with that, that
no one has ever done this.
No one has ever done this.
Who do I think I am?
And we keep tapping on
those until we read that,
and there's no charge, or
there's no number out of 10,
and it feels like it's a
neutral statement to us then.
And we move on to the
next one and the next one.
And that process might
take a little bit of time.
You might find you don't have
to actually tap on all of them.
Tapping tends to have a
generalization effect, where
when we tap on the ones that
are the strongest to start with,
all of them are related
that we've written down,
so we tend not to have
to tap on all the others
because they do
collapse along the way.
So it's always good to sort
of start with the ones that
are really the strongest.
So you might find that
tapping on five of those
gets you to a point where
you're like, no, I do--
I think this is possible for me.
How could this not happen?
I've got no doubt.
I don't have any
little committee
in my head telling me anything.
It's actually gone all quiet.
And I actually feel like
this is a possibility.
Now, to be in that
state means you
will be in a very
different thought
state, a very different
emotional state, a very
different energetic state.
And of course, then what
happens in your life,
we have to wait to see.
But what happens is, people
come back to us and say,
you won't believe it,
but my goal came true.
And I go, I do believe
it, because you did.
And it comes down to belief.
So what I thought
we might do today
is at least start the
process by tapping on doubt.
So I do have a goal that I'm
thinking of in my own mind.
And I'm tapping on
doubt about that.
So if all of you were to
think now about something
you would like to come true--
pick something that at least
has some level of doubt for you,
at least a 5 out of 10.
If you had no doubt, and you
know it's absolutely going
to come true, change the date.
Make the date much
closer in time,
because that will often
create a bit of discomfort.
Make it next month instead
of a year down the track.
How could that come true?
So let's just tap on
doubt for the moment.
You can repeat this
process by writing down
all of your little committee
ideas on your piece of paper
and tap through those
after we're finished.
So we always start with
our set-up statement.
Even though I have this doubt
about my goal coming true,
I accept I feel this way.
Even though I have this doubt
that this could possibly
come true, especially in
the time frame I want,
I accept I feel this way.
Even though I've got
this significant doubt--
how could this possibly
come true for me--
I accept myself anyway.
Up to the eyebrow point,
this doubt in my body;
side of the eye, this
doubt in my mind;
under the eye, this amount of
doubt I have; under the nose,
this doubt about my
goal; on the chin point,
this doubt about this coming
true; under the collarbone,
all of this doubt; under the
arm, this doubt that I have;
top of the head, this
doubt about my goal.
Now, take a deep
breath, and just see
how that feels for a moment.
It's always really good to
read the goal that you've
written down out loud to
yourself at this point
and check, where's my level
of doubt as I read it out now.
If you become aware of
any of those committee
little voices or any
of the one-liners,
we're writing those
down to the side.
But if you were to check,
what's that number out of 10?
Where's my doubt at the moment?
Has it increased?
Have I really tuned in here, and
it was higher than I thought?
Start from that point.
Or have I had a little bit
of a shift here out of 10?
Is it dropping a little bit?
That's a good thing.
It means we're clearing
it out to allow
this to come into your life.
Let's come back to the eyebrow
and do a little bit more
on doubt.
This doubt about my
goal coming true;
side of the eye, maybe this
goal's too big; under the eye,
this doubt that I'm carrying
around; under the nose,
this doubt that's getting in the
road; on the chin, all of this
doubt; under the
collarbone, this
doubt about my goal coming
true; under the arm,
this doubt might sabotage me;
top of the head, all of this
doubt.
Take a deep breath.
And read your goal
out loud to yourself.
See where it feels
at the moment.
What else is coming up?
Is there any other ideas
you want to write down?
How's it feeling as far as doubt
level, but then maybe belief as
well?
If you were to guess
your belief level,
belief often increases
as doubt decreases.
So often, we can check in with
that level of belief as well.
So continue tapping on doubt.
We say clear the
elephant out of the room.
Let's get rid of doubt
so it's potentially not
there as something to sabotage.
And then at the same
time, anything else that
might be coming to mind,
any of the roadblocks
that might be there that might
just want to get in the road,
we can apply tapping to as well.
So good luck with the goals,
one of my most favorite ways
to actually use
tapping, and certainly
to teach lots of people out
there to allow everything
that you've ever wanted
to come into your life,
we just have to clean the
space and make the path clear
so it actually can get to you.
[MUSIC PLAYING]